Well, folks, thanks for joining us on Liberty Station. This is a first because this is our booth here at Student Action Summit, Turning Point USA here in Tampa.
And I'm with...
The amazing Dr. James Lindsay, the author of cynical theories, many other books, especially your latest.
But I want to point something out to you, James.
Um,
The first church you ever spoke at was ours, I believe. Isn't that right? That's correct. Okay. That's right. And so the very first interview in our new booth is you. So it's a curse for everything. So you get a bump on both of those
That's me.
um you just finished interviewing with charlie i did and i gotta tell you you're coming to the pastor summit august tenth to the twelfth and we're doing in coronado.
And we have
A-A-D slash agnostic. We have this conversation.
as one of our main speakers at a christian pastor's conference and i got a letter.
Because there was an article in CRN that said,
saying, saying,
Charlie Kirk is having an atheist speak at his blah, blah, blah. And then I got a letter from the couple and they were, you know,
coming after me, telling me stuff and...
and i wrote him back i said do you hold the same principle for the pilot that's flying the airplane that they have to be a christian the the the surgeon that's operating on your heart or do you want the best person for the job i said.
dr lindsey is one of the most respectful men he's spoken in our church and dealt with one thing critical race theory.
You were one of the...
One of the most kind people I've ever met.
Thank you. You're respectful of my faith and that of the congregation.
you are a man who challenges and searches you're seeking you believe in absolute truth.
By the way, I've told you before it's Jesus, but anyways.
The idea is
you you were there to educate pastors on what you said if i was an angry atheist.
Critical race theory would be the thing I'd use to destroy the church.
That's right.
And you're there helping the church awaken to their need to go against critical race theory.
As an easiest slash agnostic, why would you do that, James? You know, I'm going to call you James. You're my friend, James. Yeah, you know, I got asked this recently, and by the way, I got a letter.
I got a letter, I got a few letters about this invitation as well. I keep getting people asking why I would dare grift. Why would I be such a grifter as to go to this? And I'm like, fuck.
What? Okay. And this is a secular side of people that aren't faithful, that you're getting the same I'm getting on my end. I'm getting it from...
All the sides everywhere all the sides people upset
And so why would I do this? I got asked this recently by another pastor. I have spoken in another church since. John Benziger in Gilbert, Arizona had me welcome to me. Great.
I did a workshop on the theology of Marxism recently at his church, and we sat down, and he asked in a panel that we did during that, he said, well, you know, why, why?
I didn't say it then and I wish I had, so I'll say it to you. I don't understand the
When you see something that's this blatantly
perverse. It's this blatantly damaging and destructive of truth, of...
People being able to relate to one another in unity.
How do you not do I don't understand the question why do you do that?
I believe in absolute truth.
I get it. I guess the way I framed it...
Is when you told me if I were an angry atheist, there was a season where you were. Oh, I was, yeah. And and now you're saying, you know what?
Hi.
I'm a classical liberal in that I want to know why. Yeah. And you use the scientific method. You use footnoting. You seek truth. You're pursuing it and that could be
and academia.
And now you're watching as critical race theory is destroying absolute truth. it's it's destroying the scientific method. it's going after the enlightenment, calling it a white man's construct. yeah, yeah, yeah.
And now we're ruining our universities.
I get it.
And you see how the damage it's doing to the church as well. To the church too, yeah. So I think that, and I've always thought that, I've always actually been a classical liberal despite having an angry faith.
Every phase.
I've always believed that people should be able to believe, you know, as their conscience dictates, as their reading of the scripture dictates, as their reading of the world dictates.
And I extend that even to my woke.
I won't even call on my friends. I wish I could. I'm not that good. But...
Even they should be able to believe as their consul dictates. That's what our founders in this country enshrined in the First Amendment.
That's why John Locke wrote about the securing of life, liberty, and property as an alienable right. Because if those are secured, your conscience can't be infringed by some external power.
Power.
To sound awfully Calvinist on you for a moment.
none of us are God, none of us knows the nature of God, and none of us therefore has the authority to command somebody else how to believe. And since that's the
That's the case. Our founders, who were in many cases Calvinists, understood we're not going to impose evidence
We're looking through the state.
And we're going to allow people, we're going to keep the state out of the business of imposing voters. This thing's not going to do that
This woke thing will pervert either through state or corporation or just, um,
You know, it's manipulations on people's psychology, and it will change all the fates into something that looks on the outside like what they are, that professes the gospel of social justice.
Social justice is the easiest. And I'm not down for that. People should be able to believe that.
according to what they believe the scriptures are or or whatever else teach them. similar to nazi jeremy dieter von hofer when hitler said i'm gonna take care of your pensions and your churches.
and then bonhoeffer said but i'm concerned with the soul of germany and he said leave that to me.
and and and bonhoeffer was a targeted hitler and bonhoeffer actually contended that assassinate him as a minister that's hard to process theologically yeah and one of the last directors of hitler was the killer.
was to kill him before he killed Ava Braun and caught the shot himself.
And here you are.
you stepped out in front of
Your colleagues
you're contending and and
The church hasn't been as completely infiltrated as the universities have been.
And it's brought you consternation, attack,
Visceral ridicule
You've been canceled.
And I think, you know,
Why would you do that? Why don't you just go along to get along?
It's so much bigger than...
You know, my comfort for a year or 10 in this world, it's just so much more important.
These principles that men
laid their lives I mean there was everything there were those those 50 was it six people assigned the Declaration of Independence 57 yeah they laid everything on
Anything on their lives. Their lives, their fortunes that are sacred on them. And they're sacred on them. That's right. They laid it all
And they did that not for themselves or only, but for us as well. Posterity. For posterity, that's right. That's us. And we have posterity coming
Posterior to us and so we behind our posteriors we have our posterity coming and so we have to do the same thing right it's just
I don't know what their idea is religiously and I don't want to claim it but I don't want them to be able to claim it.
For us either.
And I mean, if I want to be small and selfish, which I don't think is actually my motivation. I ask myself, is this my motivation? I don't want it imposed on me. Yeah.
just for that small reason but for the big reason i don't want to impose on anybody i don't want my children growing up in that world i don't want their children and all the children henceforth growing up in that world.
Well, no. I've had the blessings of freedom, and I want to make sure they stay for everybody. Those 16 tortured words of the First Amendment of the Bill of Rights, Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion, nor for...
North prohibiting the pre exercise thereup. They didn't want a denomination. They didn't want to state church.
But when a religious system comes
demands adherence like Sharia law, it's contrary to the U.S. Constitution. That's right. And I -- you know, James, you and I may not agree on faith, and I'm
And I may get pushback from the
the christian community that we're having you and charlie will get pushed back having you speak at a pastor's conference.
but you know what nobody knows critical race theory better than you.
And when you come in and educate the pastors on what to look for, how it's infiltrated the country,
And how to combat it.
And you're not a member of these fellowships, nor subscribing to their faith.
And you're surrounded with with pastors who you're respectful of
And you and I have had some hard to hard conversations.
I just have to tell people, is this your faith that you're so narrow you can't have a man as, as, as, as, as, as,
Scholarly and as a quip,, as Dr. James Lindsay, speak on behalf of something he knows more about than any pastor in the country,
Our Bible says.
Whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is pure,
Meditate on these things. Yeah.
Thank you for the pursuit of truth.
Digging in and giving us historical references, showing us the history of how it came about, the world of philosophy that you are immersed in and understand deeply.
You have helped me. I didn't know critical racing. It was you.
Who opened my eyes and helped me navigate through the lockdowns and the attacks that we faced.
I want everyone to know.
however you feel about me talking with an agnostic or atheist, we are like, i said that, but.
How are we doing? I don't care.
This is my friend.
And not just that, he's also a man that has been instrumental in mentoring me to deal with the greatest thing attacking the church today. And they need to know that. I agree. I agree.
If you had cancer, you used the pilot in flying the plane. If you had cancer, you're going to go to the best oncologist. Y
Period. Yeah, this is a cancer in our society. And if you think it won't,
Metastasize and make its way into the organ of the church. You're wrong. It already has. It already has. And it will continue to proliferate and expand. And it will?
Kill the thing from within.
And you might not even recognize.
But it will. And so that's not right. It's just not right.
Your time is valuable. I don't want to keep you here. I honestly,
I could talk to you forever, and everyone wants to do that.
let's do it this way.
For folks listening, share with us.
christendom.
Um,
What is it we need to be aware of and what steps we need to take to stave off this?
cancer that is rapidly growing. I mean, what you need to do to stave it off is to educate yourself and stand against it. That's it. Period. You have to come together.
You have to work together as congregations. You have to work together across Christianity. And you have to take a stand against this. There's no middle ground. I understand the old joke.
- The whole joke, you know you get...
It doesn't matter how many people have won the nomination, you get one person, another nomination, and everybody's talking about theology now.
That's got to go to the side. We've got a attack coming.
Your theological debates matter, they're important, I'm not saying they're not.
But we've got to take care of this problem first.
That's the most important thing to understand. And what you have to get is you cannot do it.
And i'm not trying to show for myself go read somebody else's stuff i don't care
You cannot do it unless you understand it. You cannot cure a disease you don't understand.
And so people absolutely have to do that. You have to understand that the threat is real, but all it really takes is strong men and women to stand up and say no, no problem.
No further.
It stops with me. And with pastors, by the way, since we have talked about your Bible, I will tell them they should go read Matthew chapter 4 and read about the temptations of what you're supposed to do.
When the temptations come to you
You are being promised a lot to go along. This is a purposed maneuver on a very big big scale.
A lot of people talk about the World Economic Forum these days and its instrumental role in promulgating these ideas into the world. They've been talking for over a decade about the crucial role of faith as the third largest
Bird leg of the stool for their program.
public, private and faith are the three legs of the stool. And if they can infiltrate all three levels, it's done. Because what Klaus Schwab said is when you get into faith, you change people's values.
You can change their values to make them demand the new world. Hitler did it.
That's the objective. And so you have to stand against it.
Well,
Dr. James Lindsay, how do folks
Support you or
Get your book, Cynical Theory, and tell them about the latest.
I haven't read it yet. Yeah, yeah, race marks. All you need to know about Critical Race Theory forever is in this book, race marksism. Race marksism. Yeah, you can get that at racemarkism.com.
So we made that easy. I'm going to do it. Yeah.
You can follow me on social media @conceptualjames as long as they still have me. That's under threat. My company is New Discourses, the website's newdiscourses.com. The channels are all branded new.
to new discourses or at new discourses or whatever, podcasts.
access to the books you can see everything that I've got going on and coming up but that's where you want to go every time I sit with you I get smarter and better equipped thank you folks everything he shared
Tap into it.
You'll be the wiser for it. And trust me, it's coming. You need to be. It's already here. It's going to get exponentially worse.
And if you want to be able to defeat it, you need to be educated. God bless you, man. Thank you. Thanks, Pastor. All right.
thanks folks.